tape ran out, we were struggling with the problem
of why Rockdale's lignite mine situation was
apparently more progressive than a company town
situation like Pullman. Well, you know, a whole
lot of that I think can be attributed to the class of
businessmen and civic leaders that Rockdale had.
People like H.C. Meyer and E.B. Phillips and Bruce
Denton, N.M. Bullock, and my father, the
newspaper man, John Esten Cook, and they thought a
lot of Rockdale, and
they looked upon the mines out there, they were
proud of the mines out there, but the The Mexicans
that worked out there in the mines had their own
little community, and they kind of took care of
their own affairs and celebrated this thing
called the mail. And they didn't bother anybody,
and we didn't bother them. I think it was more of a
peaceful coexistence. Right. I've been amazed.
No one particularly thought about them being
outsiders out there working, you know. I've been
amazed at the lack of labor troubles out there.
They weren't labor troubles, but labor troubles
came along. Years later after everybody got
educated by the union. They weren't labor
troubles and there wasn't ethnic
There wasn't so much thought given to ethnic
groups and problems that might arise from them.
They were just looked upon as part of the
community. Do you think that just the physical
nature of Word of Mind were kind of... That bound to
have had a whole lot to do with it, because they
were, you know, out there anywhere five, six,
seven miles from the center of town. And they just
sort of appeared like the farmers coming in on one
case. Right. To the rest of the people around me.
That's right. Well, again, I want to thank you, and
I hope you didn't. I think on some of those, on some
of those Mexican celebrations, I, you know, I
don't remember them because that was, I was too
young to participate in that sort of thing then.
But I think there were a lot of Rockdale people that
used to like to go out there. and participate in
some of them, make them celebrations. You know,
welcome them and help them celebrate. There just
wasn't that much of a mention in the paper about
that. Probably not. And another thing you might
keep in mind is newspapers in those days were a
pretty far cry from newspapers today. Oh, yes. And
the...
That wasn't the big news stories in those days. The
big news stories were strictly local and Mr. and
Mrs. John Henry visiting somebody else and all of
that sort of thing. So-and-so bought such and such
piece of land. And even advertising was different
in those days. Mostly, most good civic-minded
businessmen thought they should advertise to
support the paper because the town needed the
paper. And today, they advertise to get business,
and I don't think that was so much the case then. It
was goodwill advertising in those days, you know.
Well, I did notice a big jump after 1936 in the
number of advertisements in the paper. I don't
know if that was due to your solicitations or not,
but it was just amazing to me. There was a jump.
Well, I think you'll find that true all over the
state. Weekly newspapers have changed a lot and
have become more news-conscious and more
advertising-conscious, and businessmen have
done the same thing. Well, again, thank you, and I
appreciate it very much. You're sure welcome.
Good luck to you.